STA141A Project 2

Abstract: The spread of COVID-19 had detrimental effects on economic activities following worldwide lockdowns. Our primary interest was whether there were differences among countries’ ability to recover from the initial economic impacts of COVID-19 due to overall wealth and proportion of the population with COVID-19 infections. To measure the number of infections, we used the COVID-19 dataset from the WHO Website, which granted us information about infections and deaths for various countries daily. We also looked into 2 other different datasets to explore the GDP change per quarter in 2020, along with looking into a country’s gdp per capita to gain insight about its economical standing prior to the pandemic. We decided to incorporate an analysis of variance model to explain the difference in the percentage change in GDP in fiscal quarter 3 between countries. We incorporated the population infected with COVID-19 and the GDP per capita of each nation in quarter 3 as predictors to try to account for the variance in GDP percentages. To incorporate these values into our model, we split the population infected with COVID-19 into levels relative to the number of infections and subsequently split the percentage change in GDP into levels based on the proportion of infections. We measured the statistical significance of the differences observed in percentage change in GDP and ran diagnostics to test if there were any errors in our assumptions. We also ran the non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis test to further test our assumptions across these different groups.
